CHAPTER VIII.
When he was come down from the mountain great multitudes followed him, and, behold, there
came a leper, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will, be thou clean, and immediately
his leprosy was cleansed.
And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man, but go thy way, show thyself to the
priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a testimony unto them.
And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion beseeching
him and saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented,
and Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him.
The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under
my roof, but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to this man, Go, and he
goeth, and to another, Come, and he cometh, and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to them that followed, Verily, I say unto
you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel, and I say unto you, that many
shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and
Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer
darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way, and as thou hast believed, so be it done
unto thee, and his servant was healed in the self-same hour.
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laid and sick of
fever, and he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and ministered unto
them.
When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils,
and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick, that it might
which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, himself took our infirmities, and bare our
sicknesses.
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the
other side.
And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou
goest.
And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, for the
Son of Man hath not where to lay his head.
And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
But Jesus said unto him, Follow me, and let the dead bury their dead.
And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him, and, behold, there arose a great
tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves.
But he was asleep, and his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us,
we perish.
And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?
And he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm.
But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the
sea obey him?
And when he was come to the other side, into the country of the Gyrgossines, there met
him two possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceeding phiris, so that no
man might pass by that way, and, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with
thee, Jesus, thou son of God?
Art thou come hither to torment us before the time?
And there was a good way off from them, and heard of many swine feeding.
So the devils besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the
herd of swine.
And he said unto them, Go.
And when they were come out, they went into the herd of swine.
And behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished
in the waters.
And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into the city, and told everything and
what was befallen to the possessed of the devils.
And behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus.
And when they saw him, they besought him, that he would depart out of their coasts.